Doctor Nathan Timent sat in his office at the Time University on Mars quietly grading papers on “Introduction To Advanced Time Theory”.  He only strongly remembered the first class, but it seems his students had carried on the year without him. 

No. Not without him, but with a different him.  Like he taught the same long class over and over again, with just enough new material to fill in the gaps.  

The entire years worth of papers was there, and he had a quick stack made of the best of the work to walk himself through the course.  

As he flipped through the students reports and summaries, the fog in his mind evaporated in the light of knowledge.

Enough of the lectures had gone off course as he worked through the questions came up that day.  A bigger picture formed from those days.  Or iteration of that one day.  It was still just the same first class. 

His brow furled as he thought about the implications of that.  Obviously he was still teaching the class, but the Null Pulses the university used seemed to be overdone in his case.  He knew the word in his mind but the concept was like a closed knot that he only knew the outline of.  Focusing his thoughts they lined up like a good run in solitaire.    He looked up quickly when the chronometer by the door chimed about the incoming Null Pulse.  

He knew he only had a day to get his life in order for .. something.  He knew the AI had kept track of everything that passed across it, and what he left running he would be working on later. 

“I suppose I’ll get to it next year” he said to no one in particular.

/Whirr-Tick-Whirr/ said a mechanical voice behind him.

For some reason the sound was familiar, and it was trying to tell him something. 

On a hunch, he brought up the full description of Null Pulse on his University Emergency Primer book. 

“Resets the University to the beginning of the Year. Memories are reset for all staff not exiting to Outside work, as this helps reduce loop sickness.  Experiments and TimeShip use will be effectively erased to eliminate time-fragmentation and micro paradox residue.”

It carried on about exceptions and how to structure them so they would survive the pruning.  It was a way to carry forward any knowledge into the next loop and still keep the TimeSense that developed from straining the mind in a non-linear environment.  It was mainly focused on non-time related topics though.

Like many things, it was information found in a hurry near the end of the loop when certain triggers had been met.  They didn’t have TimeShips, but he could see that they might cause similar problems.

Nathan had always worked under the highest stress and felt like he kept a lot of the things he was focused on with or without the exceptions.

“We still don’t know what experiment(s) are triggering the loop” read one of the papers he had starred.  He still had time to dig into it before it happened.  The University had worked itself around the schedule of the loops, which happened to be almost a year apart.  Almost deliberately so.  It was one of the few pieces of info that was time related that survived the reset.

His mind drifted back to the first uninterrupted class. 

“As much as we at the University taught about Time Travel, in reality no-one really understands it.
They could control it.  Stretch it. Play with the order of events, but it was like moving sand on a beach.
 Sometimes you end up with a castle. But more often you just end up with ... sand.”

He pictured himself doing that a hundred times, lifting a bucket of moist sand, flipping it over and seeing how long the shape would hold.

It seemed like a year was enough time to get a lot of things in play, but it was also the length of time that could get things incredibly unstable as well.

His goal was to get that castle to hold. To get enough knowledge about time in play at once to get past the loop and get a real foundation going.

An idea hit him.  It was probably a bad idea.  It almost certainly was.  He was going to visit his own class and cover everything he had come up with so far and seed it as far back in the year as possible.

He’d have to fool the Robot safeties, as they worked to try and stop that kind of thing.  He put down his name as Doctor Time, leaving off the -nt as a kind of in-joke.  He come up with a bio that explained he was an old professor that had left the University and was coming back to refresh his knowledge.

/Tick-Whirr-Thud/ remarked the robot in the corner.  It knew what was coming.  It had seen this. Or a variation of it a hundred times.   Near the end and beginning of the loops the various experiments had funnelled things into a repeatable series of events that kept the University jumping back in time repeatedly. 

It was a part of the natural, unnatural order of things.  It meant the school could output old students and gain new ones, before the timeline collapsed and reformed.  Assuming everything went to plan.  Lately though, things had felt extra familiar as if the same group was locked in the same loop. 

During the new loops different things happened, and there was always the possibility they would break through at some point.  The total knowledge inside the University databases was steadily building, and small problems were being solved.  

It could still recall when the loop was longer, and it took multiple years for them to reach the critical point where it would fragment and collapse. 

---

Doctor Zapp received the end of year report.  Doctor Timent was trying to bootstrap his knowledge of time again.  He could pretty much guarantee that was the cause of the paradox that kept things breaking. He had left himself that message from the last loop, and it was happening again.

 As Dean of the University he was trying to balance keeping everything safe, working and moving forward.

Those goals, however, had proved to be at odds with each other. 

He had seriously tried this time to Null out most of Doctor Timent’s Time knowledge and keep him teaching an introductory class, buying time to the next loop, but he kept living that last few days over and over again.  They found that they could stretch that time out in relation to everyone else. 

For Doctor Timent, his middle day would change, but the first and last would always be the same.  He would start by teaching the first introductory class, teach a second day that could be anything, leaving only a vague impression, then a final day where he’d grab all the threads and decide to go back and teach his younger self.  That would create a paradox that got out of control.

It was unstable, but at the same time, it worked.  They could cram a year in between that first class and the last day.  On the surface it didn’t make sense, but it was safe to duplicate that second day enough times before it reached critical mass.

Zapp worked quickly to try and bring up the safeties as Doctor Timent snuck into his previous classes and tried to steer the discussion.  He kept him from recognizing himself and focused the efforts on not letting the knowledge build onto too many university projects.  It was a losing battle. 

The computer let him know it was exactly what he had tried last time.  The warning that the University had completely unteathered from time sounded from the chronometers and people had a day to get their affairs in order.  They couldn’t leave now via a time gate, but could leave some clues for themselves for after the reset. 

He switched over into nullifying any learnt info about time manipulation that hadn’t existed before.  As usual some stuff managed to hang on, even as the Null Pulse unteathered the quantum signatures of people from the events they had experienced in this loop.

---

Nathan had jumped back to his office earlier this time. He had caught onto Zapps struggle against his plan and tried to keep him occupied while he worked on something else.  Nathan kept refreshing the request to visit the class and Zapp would waste time and effort dealing with the predicted outcome.  

Instead, he organized his desk with a cryptic layer of hints that would confuse the AI and anyone else looking at his saved files.  He knew about the purge of time related files, so he took the most innocuous quotes from each student with a good question and assigned them to a playing card.  Each card would link to a blurred version of their essay and he could hopefully reconstruct them in order with some bit of lingering memory from the previous loop.

/Whir-Thud/

“Oh, I’ve tried that before too?” Nathan was trying to out clever himself with a big elaborate plan.  When it really needed to be something simple.

He madly flipped through all the pages of work from the year.  No.  Something from the end of the year, when everything was just about done and the students were just about as skilled as they would get.  

Nothing was dated, as the classes were all random to each person, so he tried to find out who did the best so far, but there was no way to grade everyone in the time left.

He was about to rush through the list again, hoping he had randomized it from last time and... 

/Whir-Tick-Tick/

“Already done the whole class list?” Of course, the robot was programmed not to give him too much information, but he had messed with the audio output to give him contextual clues that he just instinctively understood.  It rode out the loops quietly, not being able to break them or change things on it’s own, but searching the near identical variations for something new for the humans to focus on that break the pattern they were all in.

Nathan let out a breath.  If had gotten to this point in every other loop he must have already done this before too.

What had he figured out? He knew that the start and the end of the loop, at least for him, were nearly identical.  He knew that he and Zapp were at odds on how to get by it.  Nathan wanted to bootstrap more knowledge into the next loop, but Zapp figured it made things unstable faster.  The equilibrium had made the stability last as long as a year. 

He knew that he wouldn’t remember why he left himself clues at the beginning of the next loop, but only at the end. 

“Computer, can you bring up the trashed files from day 1 of this cycle?”

/Tick-Thud-Whir/ said the robot in the background.

“So is this new from this point?”

/Tick-Thud-Thud/

“Oh, not new, but I run out of computer requests before I sort out the papers for everyone.”

The screen showed a deck of cards, each associated with a blurred version of essays.  None of the shapes matched what he had in front of him.  The quotes were a bit fuzzy, but he could almost remember who said them.  He’d need a transcript of a day to reconstruct the previous thoughts.

He knew that he could spread his own middle day over various years if things were similar enough.  

The finals marks for each student were saved in spreadsheet file. That looked like a good thing to open.  

“Let’s see who the winner is”

/Clunk-Whir-Tick/  

“Oh, that’s why the requests get cut off. It’s a decoy file.” By opening that, Zapp must figure out I’d be doing this another way, and he’d try to minimize my Temporal Computer use.  “As long as I look like I’m doing this randomly, I can probably get a few transcripts to catch what isn’t in the essay.”    

/Tick-Cluck-Thud/

Nope, tried that too.  He had said it for the effect, and he know the robots comments wouldn’t be recorded. 

A saved file for a solitaire game was also in the trash.   He restored the file and opened up the game.  It was about as harmless as he could get.   He logged off the Temporal request link and looked like he was going to just give up this loop.

As soon as he disconnected, the cards jumped into a new order.  They weren’t being recorded anymore so they could do what they were supposed to do. 

In truth he was using the quotes on the cards and the order they were in on the game to jog his memory of the conversations.

After about an hour of playing he realized what the latter half of the class was.  It was trying to figure out how the Null Pulse worked.  It was a part of the University that was never really questioned.  They knew why it was in place, but not who invented it or when.

The bulk of the essays were different theories how they could work, and each student had their own idea.  Someone was closer than everyone else, and they would have gotten the highest mark.  Knowing what they were working on had made Zapp randomize things as much as possible and use the highest setting on Nathan.  

Nathan had realized, and somehow had always realized that he was deliberately allowing this.  Some combination of classes would push a student to a theory of how things worked to get him the key to countering it subtlety.

Or was that a red herring too? Maybe he already succeeded and forgot.  The only problem with being sure you were at the end of a loop was the knowledge you had done things slightly different last time, but were locked out of that logic now. 

As he contemplated everything, he realized that from all the random classes just about any theory of time could be made to work, but there were some configurations that were more stable than others.   Something that would allow for paradoxes to exist, and not be too harmful.  Some knowledge could be bootstrapped into existence and seemingly come from nowhere.

He realized that Zapp was right though, and time needed to have a solid foundation as well.  Something that could be reliable and consistent. Logical and repeatable.  

But that could go too far as well.  The robot knew that the variations were endless, but so nearly identical, at least in terms of start and end.  

He typed up his findings and sent them to Zapp, with an apology.  

--

Zapp read the report solemnly.  He filed it with the others.  He looked through the year end grades for advanced time theory.  He noticed that Doctor Timent hadn’t opened the file, and so must have come to the conclusion relatively organically. He hadn’t even gone through the transcripts or anything else. It was his turn to be humble though, as he asked his computer if that had happened before.

-Affirmative-

“How many times has this happened?”

--Unknown--

As detailed as records got, some things were just binary, they either had be tried or hadn’t.  

He realized that he had dialed things in too hard, he had made the loop so nearly identical that the same ending had come about.  It would now be working against probability not to come to the same conclusion every time, being stuck in an endless loop doing the same thing over and over again with with only micro decisions keeping things different.  

At the same time, he didn’t know what information Doctor Timent was working off of.  He didn’t follow advanced time theories himself as he knew that anything could work, so they were all equally useful and useless.

Something about that nagged him, and he looked at the grades again.  Doctor Timent must have had these done before too.  He brought up a file that listed the variations on final marks from previous loops. They seemed to be submitted at different times in the previous loops at least relative to other events.

He knew from previous loops he had cut off computer use and transcript requests as Doctor Timent graded each student independently.  Each student’s work would be judged on it’s own merit as to it’s eventual usefulness and not in comparison to the others.

As one theory was worked on though, opposing theories would become less useful, railroading them into a way of doing things that seemed to always work out better than everything else tried.

It meant that each student would have a turn at being he top student, but knowing which one was best last loop would keep them repeating that same theory over and over again.

As Dean, Zapp could look back at many iterations and see each student’s highest mark.  There was an obvious choice.  Even with each student taking their turn at scoring in the low 90s, Jade had stood out a full percentage higher than the others.  Making it too obvious to Doctor Timent would skew the experiments too far and lose the value of doing the others, dooming them to a repeating loop.  Or so his own thoughts at the start of the loop would be.

There had to be an organic way of letting Doctor Timent know which the critical theory was, but without upsetting his equilibrium.

As he noted the pattern of computer use, he realized that Doctor Timent had known that problem as well and somehow left himself clues as to not get too bogged down in details.

He pulled up Jade’s list of classes for this loop and wondered if they were the same on the loop she had scored her highest marks, or if they too were a random variable.

He hoped for the best, and set about a way to indicate to to Doctor Timent who he should subtlety look about listening to for ideas.

Zapp brought up the rest of the trash folder Doctor Timent and himself would always leave the Doctor and noted the card game.  He left the marks folder in there as well, hoping against hope his past self wouldn’t lock it. Which always happened.

“Have I done this before?”

-Affirmative- 

Good, thought Zapp. I must be railroading myself into the same choices as well.  He wondered if he had messed with the card game before. 

-Negative- came the response.

Okay, that was something.  But it needed to happen early.  Something before the quotes were heard, to know who said them. 

He probably figured that Doctor Timent had figured out a way to get the best of each students work scheduled to his first day.  That way they’d have the most time to work on a theory for the year.  The transcript for the first day always ended up the same however.  Or had been as long as he had the main variables figured out.  Records for beyond that type of loop were spotty.

He turned the cards green, and disguised it as a computer error.  Hopefully that was subtle enough to pass his own check as well as let Doctor Timent know what to listen for.

Zapp watched as the time fragmentation got to the critical point and things dissolved.  @

--- 

“As much as we at the University taught about Time Travel, in reality no-one really understands it.
They could control it.  Stretch it. Play with the order of events, but it was like moving sand on a beach.
 Sometimes you end up with a castle. But more often you just end up with ... sand.”

The familiar bucket experiment.  For some reason it left an impression on people. One that gave most people a mind warping sense of deja vu. 

“How many seconds is it going to hold?” asked Nathan.  “If time loops are predictable, you should have gotten a message from your year end experiment.  It was, hopefully, a working time machine.”

“Of course if butterfly effect is correct, it’s impossible to tell.   There’s also 16 theories for manipulating time that need testing as well.  He flipped on a few switches to low power receivers that would let signals through. 

He waited for people to answer.  Most people had messages, but they were all the answers to different questions.  What colour bucket did he use? Where had he put the sand?  What was Nathan wearing on his tie.  Some of them were correct, some of them were only close.  He could track the answers to a specific time-fragmentation and used those questions on other days.  Today was the hardest question, despite being the most obvious.   The goal was get a correct answer from before fragmentation.

As usual no-one got it.  He went through each of the theories in light but forward looking detail. So ended the first class.

---

Jade felt like she was in a time loop.  Almost everyone else figured the reset was a fresh start, but her intuition said otherwise.  If I was running an experiment, she thought, I’d want to make sure it had the same initial conditions, once the proper format had been made.

“Computer, do I have any messages from unteathered time?” 

--32-- Said the computer.  “32 messages, or the message is 32?”

--32-- it said unhelpfully.  She pulled them up on her pad.  There were indeed 32 messages and they all were the number 32.  

Her theory was that when time-fragmentation occurred the amount of things you could send yourself dropped exponentially.  The more time specific or complex dependent knowledge the more likely it would be lost on the way back.

The university computers could handle sending back random things, but couldn’t give you the context or logic behind what had been sent back.

320 happened to be the number of people in her “Introduction To Advanced Time Theory” course, and to make things easier, they had all been grouped into experiment workgroups of 10.

There were 16 different experiments and countless ways to combine people and assignments.

The logic seemed familiar to her, but it took a moment to realize what the message meant.  If there were 32 32s did that mean she had done a single experiment that many times?

No, there were ways to check for that, or so “Introduction To Advanced Time Theory” had explained.  It more likely meant that she was done all 16 twice.   

She was the only one in the class that had offered to do so, as most people had picked a favourite part way through, or after the first round of all of them.

The result should have been the numbers 1-16 twice, but something happened in the paradox residue.



---
Doctor Timent got around to looking at his trash folder.  It was still full from the last loop.  It seemed like he was giving himself clues.  The class marks were there, but now locked because of Zapp.  It was pointless, as he had already decided his marks based on comments from the first lesson -- he just needed to match them to names.  On the surface, it didn’t seem fair, but he had graded them on their answers to the bucket question.  A number of students were still waiting on a score as he dropped the difficulty as the classes continued, but somehow he felt like the answer should be there already. 

 He saw the game and opened the file, the cards were green for some reason. The file looked corrupted, but deliberately so.  He saw the still image playing cards with the blurred out reports and quotes from people.  He knew that one of them had the key to unlocking the best time theory and would come up with it by end of year. 

And that was the problem.  The internal workings of the University would let classes move around internally, and students could take his classes in any order since they were essentially a refresher on the theories and a randomized question for the day.  

Usually, anyone not getting a result on the first day would get one by the second, but by then some experiments had already started up and influenced the local space-time.

---
@
Zapp was waiting for the big reveal.  He had gotten the final marks from the best of the best trials and locked the results away from Doctor Timent.  What he didn’t know was the style of the final machine and how it would manipulate space-time.  The individual theories were beyond his understanding, besides, he kept himself from getting too bogged down in the day to day variations. 

It was one of the 320 students he currently had, the robots had noted that nothing significant had come through to indicate which one. 

He had hoped the class would have an answer to the bucket question, but the transcript had been identical.  

---
Each of the students would make an appointment to get the equipment for the experiments. All 320 of them. If this was part of the randomization he’d have to jump on it right away.  He scanned the names, hoping something would jump out. He remembered the green card when he saw the name Jade.  She got the first appointment. 

“You have to stop the experiments” she said.  “They’re interfering with things.”

/Whir-Tick-Tick/

The robot strangely agreed with her.  It seemingly hinted at letting things settle out first.  He needed some kind of confirmation though.  He tried contacting Zapp to see who had the highest mark. He had to submit most of this years marks to prove he wasn’t just fishing. Zapp was taken aback that all of the ones Nathan gave were identical.  Zap was about to read the ones he was missing when he asked a question “Last loop, or overall?” Zapp realized he slipped up and quickly hung up.

That was good and bad news.  It meant that most loops had variations that influenced marks.  That meant variables influenced variables and left millions of combinations.  The ones so far matching meant they were still close, and close was good.

He needed more information that would be available at end of year, but he needed to stay objective.  That meant he had to Null Pulse himself before next class.  Had that been done too?
He got up and scanned himself at the chronometer.  His Null Reading was orders of magnitude above others. His stomach felt like cement as he realized what that meant. Okay.  Need to eliminate more variables. 

That definitely meant cancelling the experiments for now.  They had enough information for the answer but just needed to put it all together.

“Jade, do you know how we could go through the past experiments without conducting new ones?”

Jade smiled.  “Just keep running the same one.  Do the bucket time next class as well.”

It all felt familiar.  They had had this conversation before.  He was already unconsciously leaning to that answer, but it felt important to be said out loud.  

“How often have we done this?” He asked turning back to his robot.

/Thud-Whir-Thud/  That meant twice now, but with some loops in between.

 “Okay, so something right about these circumstances, but it’s only happened once before. Can you help me narrow it down Jade?”

Jade thought back to her 32 dilemma earlier in the day.  “I think I’ve done all the experiments exactly twice now.” 

That fit with Nathan’s working theory, that every one had a bit of truth to it, but something about all of them would cancel it all out.   

“Something must linger between loops that influences the experiments on a personal level.” said Jade.

Nathan didn’t like that answer but it was a working theory.  One that might get an extra percentage on final year end if everything else was equal.  That was something else unconsciously happening in his marks, everyone getting a good result would get low 90 but there seemed to be a plateau.

---

Class deja vu was extra strong on the second day.  Nathan had started the class with a local Null pulse, and began the same way as he did before. 

“As much as we at the University taught about Time Travel, in reality no-one really understands it.
They could control it.  Stretch it. Play with the order of events, but it was like moving sand on a beach.
 Sometimes you end up with a castle. But more often you just end up with ... sand.”

The bucket, again.  Various people remembered the colour, focusing on his tie or picking out a spot he would put it on the table. 

“How many seconds is it going to hold?” asked Nathan.  “If time loops are predictable, you should have gotten a message from your year end experiment.  It was, hopefully, a working time machine.”

The question caught everyone off guard, except for Jade.  She felt a cold shiver as her experiment checked in with her.  “53.8s” she said.  A few others who, due to variations, had just finished one full set of experiments got answers as well.  Jade’s number was still the closest by orders of magnitude though.

The classroom was shocked.  

“Jade, do you remember what you did?” asked Nathan.  “Better than that,” she said as she used the signal to trace back to the still existing machine.  “I can bring it here.”

The machine caused sparks to form around the table next to the sand and the crude device appeared with a deep pop like a menacing balloon.

It contained basic components that accounted for all 16 semi-workable time machine theories.  Unlike the individual experiments, it could fragment and reassemble time harmoniously, undoing it’s own damage to the timeline.

It was brilliant, and a fluke that it could ever be built, twice now.  It was still broadcasting “32” as a kind of homing signal, and final clue to herself as she crept toward the answer.

---

Zapp was impressed, but realized that it was the beginning, rather than the end of things.  Working Time Machines would have to be built and the greater mysteries of the University existing at all would have to be investigated.   

There would have to be a way to communicate between timeships, prevent paradoxes and keep track of people who were outside the University.

He looked as various safeties built into the building had started switching off, and the monochrome fuzz in his mind retreated

---

In the next few days, as the fallout of the one-sided experiments and over zealous safeties settled, people remembered the previous loops more clearly.  The failed trials, the ebbing tide of runaway experiments that build their own towers of barely navigable time.  Much of the work had been done many times over, and people had unconsciously switched their work over to reversing the Null Pulse instead.  A few, like Jade, had stuck with the idea of building a time machine.   

However, safeties that kept them sane also prevented them from remembering much, unless they had kept a log of theories tried and communicated that to themselves somehow.

They had to be balanced to succeed, and thankfully going through each of the theories effectively zeroed out the scales and tuned the person into the right magnitude for each of the working parts.

However, the previously built skewed time machines had kept existing, and were only sending signals if the unstable experiments had started up.  That was the source of the time-fragmentation.  As the rogue machines were shut down, the fuller length of the timeline began to fall into place.  It seemed that many of the discoveries for the theories to be formed were from the future, and had somehow found their way into the basic literature of the University.  Someone had been sending the information back in time, and the success of the experiments had fragmented the future.  The events and people were already fixed points, as the phenomenon would only appear to the specific person at the now rediscovered time.  It seems the previous loops had been about settling that order out and compiling the information as innocuously as possible.  

Enough information had been embedded in the Null pulse kept everyone feeling grounded and safe.  Now though, people started finding gaps – like missing the day they joined the Time University.

Doctor Timet had the most gaps, and unlike most of the faculty, hadn’t been taught by previous teachers – at least not yet.  That finally earned him the nickname Doctor Time.
----

A new Advanced Time Theory class had begun, and Doctor Time had wrote the working theories in the same order at the start of every class, now in order of discovery.  The first letter of each last name spelled J-A-D-E.  It seemed to be a coincidence, but it probably wasn’t.

Each of the discoveries was based on a certain particle or field interaction that would be discussed in greater detail, now the basic experiments had stopped messing with future time.

The job was now to build a working full sized time machine.

It seemed daunting, but really, only four requirements were needed.  They had to ensure the surviability of a mechanical component, a biological one, navigate via a loop reference and a randomization control module.    
 
The mechanical part was already done, thanks to Jade, but she had lucked out on loop reference and randomization.  Or rather, the focusing of loops into near identical circumstances made for a wide target.

Years at the University still ended with a Null Pulse, but staff and students could now exit, and the whole thing was more of a deep clean than a collapse and rebuild.

---

Zapp found more and more gaps on the administrative end of things, and found that, like rogue experiments, could eat away at the unique structure of the university.   Foremost in his mind, the robots that had guided things so far seemed to have no source either. They seemed to be the main tether to time once things got haywire and it was dangerous to have a human controlled time machine without the mechanical safeguards being anchored to reality.  So far, they could exist within the timeless walls of the University, but would be short lived outside of it.

As he typed up the letter to try and advertise the new goal for the university his computer froze due to an incoming time signal.  The wall robot said it would sort out the solution, but would have to take the room out of sync to do it.  Zapp decided to call it a day, and went to the common area to brainstorm about who he might push to head up the project.

The next day he found a note on his computer to report to Linear Integration lab and prepare to take the new position of Robot Construction/Safety Coordinator.  The computer had registered it coming from the new Dean of the University as his time in the position had be unceremoniously ended.  The room’s robot said the room would unsync again to prepare for the next occupant.

It was for the better.  He had realized yesterday that Safety had pretty much been his main task as Dean anyway, and now that it was it’s own position, he would already be familiar with the basics.

He wasn’t sure about Linear Integration though, he didn’t remember that department.  As he looked around several of the labs seemed to have different names, and Zapp felt a strange pull, like the world had just turned 90 degrees.

He stumbled over to a nearby bench, which happened to be just outside the room he was looking for.  A man who looked very much like him stepped out of the room to help him as he felt suddenly exhausted.

“Is this the last one?” said a voice like his own in recordings.  Zapp felt his mind slip away and he hammered the emergency lanyard to boost up the local safeguards.  

A moment later he was waking up from an odd procedure that the local students had preformed while he was out.  “Quantum signatures matched” they said as finished up.  

“What?”

“Oh, yes.  Welcome to this universe.  You’ll fit right in.” he was handed a small tablet with the basics of what happened in it.

-Congratulations, you’ve been selected as a valuable part of your original timeline and you’ve been highlighted for a special consideration during this event.  In order to consolidate work on multiple timelines and variable histories your University is merging with others at similar junctures to..-

Zapp quit reading.  “Do I have a choice in this?”  

“You have plenty of choices” said the young tech.  “Just some are more meaningful than others.”

Zap resumed reading.  “...help with ongoing projects.  This merger has been planned for a while and should be relatively unnoticed by most people.  However your work as /Dean/ is already filled by a different person in this timeline.  You are welcome to lodge a formal protest, however, records indicate that you may wish to surrender this position voluntarily.-

“So what’s this about Linear Integration?”

The techs lit up as they prepared to launch into their spiel.  Zapp, another Zapp stepped out and stopped them.  “Don’t bother us with the details.  Think of it as a team of you.  They need a bunch of similar minds in each timeline to ensure a smooth merge.  Like myself, you’ve been integral in safeguards and basic order.  However, the University needs a bit more than that now.”

“It’s not Nathan, is it?” said the recently fired Zapp.  

The local Zapp answered “No. He’s almost never the Dean.  Except in my University.  He had an accident and reverted back to his entry level knowledge.  But he managed to prevent the same thing happening to other versions of himself, and the University system as a whole.  They say he made it to a different branch, and our version was just the initial Null Pulse reading backup.”

“Sounds like something he’d do. And yes, our version of Doctor Timent didn’t have a student record. Even after the defragmenting.”

“Doctor Time.” Corrected the more oriented Zapp.  “He’s earned it.  Anyway, a few extra features of the Null Pulse will get people familiar with what their other variations have been doing.  Hopefully there isn’t too many contradictory bits of information.  It will be our job to help people through the merger.”

“But we’ll stay separate?”

“We don’t have to see each other, and our dominant personality is virtually identical anyway.  They’ll be a limited pool of TimeSense to go around though, so we’ll have to sych our schedules.”

Zapp wasn’t opposed to the idea, but it took a bit of getting used to.  The lab techs turned on some background equipment.  Zapp’s mind focused on his problems with the procedure and he dealt with them in a dispassionate manner.  It would be like having a twin, being a triplet, or however many others were there.  He felt like he wouldn’t be able to do both robots and safeguards, and he didn’t trust anyone else to the job. 

Back in his timeline, another Zapp had taken over the newly created safety office and set about passing on his experience merging.  

--- 

Nathan had been called to a staff meaning by the new Zapp, who promptly explained the situation.  He was part of the grafting timelines management.  That meant he helped take offshoots that had taken too many loops sorting out a puzzle, and had split off the main University.

He explained that everyone here had a duplicate in the main timeline that would have a few extra memories, and could come and go from the University more freely.

The room shifted slightly, as the mental block that kept them from realizing their fishbowl predicament dissolved.  The hadn’t been outside of the campus in a long time, if you counted the time in loops as linear.

Zapp explained that it wasn’t, as time in loops went ‘up’ and he had come from ‘sideways’ that is, perpendicular to a linear timeline.  It was a crude analogy, but it was close enough to the situation to be clear.

He said that everyone here had been teaching classes specific to the current problem – building an externally functional Time Machine, and that Nathan had been the linchpin.  They would soon all be teaching things necessary for a support system for fleet of TimeShips.  There was, however, a great deal of overlap.  Those specializing in loop management and comms would continue in a greater capacity, as would those working on Temporal computer use and Medical.  New courses would include a greater focus on Robots and Safety, which other Zapps would teach, and mapping and external environment studies.

When they merge they would gain the knowledge of the other classes and start fresh at the start of the the next loop.  Students would be moved to classes most appropriate to their aptitude and would join on the loop following.  

It sounded good, but it was not to be.  The introduction of the crude time machines blueprints to the main timeline had sped up the collapse of the sideways branching.  

---

Safety Zapp was in a meeting of his copies, the others were now set to teach Time Logic Gates, Robot Fabrication and Programming, and Robotic Communications.  The basic drills to find a robot and let it orient you were barely in place when an alarm from the Chronometers sounded.  

The world rippled and everyone was suddenly merged with alternate versions of themselves.  Mutually exclusive memories of what they had done in the last while gave most people a disorienting web of thoughts to struggle through. 

Zapp had been spared, having multiple bodies to account for each timeline, and Nathan had jumping between the branches anyway.  In fact, Doctor Time’s overall clarity went up as the stray thoughts found islands of stability they could link to.  

Someone else though, seemed to anticipate the collapse and had send the few people relatively unfazed specific instructions.

---

Nathan Timent, the younger, had just arrived at Time University when the chaos erupted.  He got a message from Jade “You know how to fly a TimeShip?”  

--University Untearthering from Time--  The chronometers announced matter of factly.  It didn’t seem to help the situation, as most people went from remembering multiple pasts, to almost none.  

A blue robot bumped by him in the rush to another distressed group.

He looked at his message pad again.  “You know how to fly a TimeShip”  It was a statement.  It wasn’t meant to be, but in the transition to unteathered time, it lost the punctuation.  

---Narrative Safeguards Enabled---  

He had never told anyone about his experience when he was younger.  A robot, one that bore a passing resemblance to the ones he now saw helping confused students, no, it was the blue one, it had visited him in the past.  It had showed him how to fly a TimeShip, it brought him to the future to the time University.  He met himself and confusion, was that in the past, or was it now?  He still remembered the way to his office. 

---

Doctor Time sat in his office.  He remembered this day, or had once the talk of the merger jogged his memory, and had spent the last little while setting up the last 7d Simulated Narration Fields with Zapp for just such an event.  There were still bugs, but it was impossible to test the Fields for a full Unteather without actually doing it.  They were supposed to grab the last strongest memory and help you sort out paradoxes and multiple memories.  With time ‘loose’ editing the individual events that conflicted wouldn’t be too hard.

Unfortunately the main timeline had been relatively uneventful so the memories from a heavy looping branch were much stronger.  The problem was that reality didn’t match the memories they were working off of.  Classrooms were all unfamiliar and technology like the robots had only started being part of their routine.  

Technology that also hadn’t had a specific date for being invented either.  That didn’t matter as much, being unteathered, but it limited the scope of where they could go.  

University systems said the classrooms could drift farther from each other, and effectively create their own timeline in the void.   The Zapps, naturally, wanted to start at the beginning. They would work at finding a footing for introducing the University to linear time again.  The robotic courses would keep things ticking indefinitely, providing the incremental framework to anchor all the learning to. 

Doctor Time wanted to be further in the future, not relying on anything specific, but making modules of the successes that came from earlier efforts.  That would give the middle areas of time goals to work towards and tools to use to get there.  He saw how Narration Field and Simple unmanned time machines could...

A knock at his door interrupted his thoughts.  It was him, younger, and looking for a time ship.  

The younger version of him could describe the device in detail, and figured that talking to himself would be the way to find it with the least obstacles.

Doctor Time realized that time in the void would be defined by events rather than anything else.  That meant they needed to find a defining signal rather than moving ‘forwards’ or ‘backwards’ if the stretching of internal University time couldn’t handle it. 

---

Jade arrived in the office via a Time Window.  She had the impulse to jump through one to exit the University as the branching timelines collapsed.  It was the Dean’s office, but it was empty.  The rooms robot said the area was unsyched, but it could no longer find the University.  It could still communicate with it, though only crudely. 

The more pressing matter was that the room was normally locked from Time Window use if the Dean wasn’t in it.  Jade thought about sending an unlock code back, but it set a bad precedent.  Then she realized the other possibility.  She had heard that Zapp had retired from the position, but no-one knew his replacement.

It wasn’t impossible for someone in the position of Dean in a Time University to have an effect on their office before actually qualifying for the job.  Of course, the duties, beyond all the normal school paperwork - mostly done by AI, varied dependent on what the University was working on.  

“You’re early” said a voice behind Jade,  it was her, a bit older, and more obviously the intended occupant of the room.

The younger Jade made the motions to leave, but the Dean laughed in a light tension breaking way.   “I just meant that you have to take a few courses before you take over.  Don’t worry about paradoxes, we sort that out soon enough.  You must be from the time branch that didn’t join up with the others.  Part of the Dean’s Network was still unsynced so I came to investigate.”

“So I’m an anomaly?”

“They study you for a while, yep.  It improves Linear Integration into Fractal Integration.”

“When?”

“That’s not really a thing at the moment, with the University unteathered it all just happens, and the trick is organizing it back into semi-linear time again.  That’s why we’re both here.  I know what’s out there, but you have to organically organize it.  I’ve been treating events as locations, so I don’t have a preference – you’ll have to live through it, so set it up how you like.”

“Wouldn’t that make a difference to you?” 

“Not really, it would put a line of proximity to certain things, but I can always move stuff around when I need a change”

“So I’d know my own future?”

“Not really, you’d be setting goals for the University, and it might or might not work adjacent to linear time, might even take a few loops to stabilize.”

“Not that again.”

“Oh, don’t worry, we’re in a special position to skim through them.  But for now we need to track down the rest of the University and get the TimeShip working.

---

Zapp, or rather the team of them, had figured out a basic protocol for orienting the various parts of the University.  The digits of Pi were unique and non-repeating, and the various rooms still had a whiff of linear time and proximity to each other.  The basic chronometers were upgraded, or rather paradoxically created, improved and back dated to exist through a non-linear maintenance cycle.  They could read and broadcast a certain segment of pi as a basic scale for how far along the improvised timeline they were.

It also meant the rooms could leapfrog each other to continue progress, rather than having them reset when empty.  With additional sets of coordinates broadcast on a different frequency, they could roughly simulate extra time on a specific project without upsetting the basic relationships to other rooms.

It was a delicate system that needed some outside organizing.  They set about teaching courses specializing in that kind of system.  To begin with, it was mostly brainstorming and trial and error.  Leaving the relative safe confines of the main hallway system and foundation rooms, students became accustomed to asynchronous events.

The comms for the various offices began implementing vanilla time protocol.  It was a way to define an event without reference to a specific time coordinate or series of dependant events. 

Work on the robots continued as they became links for various rooms and more adventurous staff and students.  No longer in the background, they began to work as a web to keep the various segments from losing contact or context with each other.

---

Nathan was still waiting on the message from Jade to fall into context.  His older self had been trying to track down the event marker of the first working TimeShip but couldn’t work it into the University matrix without breaking Zapps basic structure of rooms.  

That meant they had to navigate a unique path through it and work it in more delicately with the centralized Pi timeline.

They had been following Communications push to Non-Coordinate Room location and were at an impasse on how to implement it beyond a fallback for voice traffic.  

Doctor Time realized that it didn’t need to be complicated.  It just needed to be more public what they were looking for and working on.  It would also help if people had their own bit of pi identifier as well, to indicate where on the scale they were looking to mesh into ideas.  

He typed up a proposal to the Dean and sent it off.

---

Jade was still in the Dean’s office trying to orient things.  As with the time machine, anything could work, but some things worked better than others, with less damage.

She had been sorting through the proposals of the various teachers and students about how to proceed and how to organize things. They seemed like good ideas, but needlessly complicated and also a little redundant. 
Organizing things helped for human comprehension, but wasn’t really needed for the robots.  They could store any type of information and due to learning software come up with ideas of their own.  It seemed easier to just input all the human ideas in and let the AI work out a compromise.

It decided to go with a kind of magnetic/gravitational type arrangement, where rooms could attract and repel as well as orbit.  It didn’t care how humans numbered or identified them, and could shoehorn them into a variety of overlays.  

As expected, Zapps work lead to predictable and stable configurations, while at the other extreme, Doctor Time’s requests threatened to disrupt systems.  The former could be safely left on his own, but the latter required more shaping to be useful.

There was some pushback for not universally endorsing a particular organization method, but the Dean cut it short.  She reminded the teachers that they were not going to be in unteathered time indefinitely and the point was in fact, to get out.  Getting too comfortable would be working against that.

It was enough of an improvement to get a time window to the main classrooms.   The younger Jade could work from the inside, even if the appearances were haphazard and unpredictable.  

---

Nathan had almost given up on his future self.  It was too difficult to work something significant in between the two vantage points that didn’t get derailed by the safeguards.  They would try various prototypes for time machines, but with nowhere to go outside the University, it would have to be able to Navigate it’s own way to real time.  There was also nothing to move in relation to anything but other rooms, so no way to see if they were making progress.


He would still go to the Advanced Time Theory class though, and he realized his problem.  It wasn’t their problem to solve.

Doctor Time began the class with a variation on the bucket illustration.

“You’ve seen how this works when the sand is wet, but not when it’s dry.”

He pours the bucket out, making a pile instead of a shape.

“This is where we are now.  Adding to time, but not contributing to a form.  We, or my past self, forgot to add the water.  Not you” he said to Nathan in the crowd.  Laughter.  “Me from 4 minutes ago.”

“By trying to organize what we have” he says pouring the water on the pile “We don’t get a different shape.  We need to shape what we don’t have.”

“How is that supposed to work?” asked the younger Jade, now taking the classes to qualify for her oversight position.

“Simple” said Doctor Time “We don’t worry about the time machine, we make everything around it, and it falls into place.”  

Jade ponders “So you figure time is already trying to signal us and get us back?”  

Doctor Time lamented “From their perspective, they’ve already succeeded, and we just have to jump onto that track.”

Nathan asked his older self “How are the Narration Fields supposed to work?”

Doctor Time sat back and tried to explain it to someone else for the first time.  “I could give you the calculations and formulae, but that’s not what you’re asking, is it?  To put it plainly it’s there to help focus things into smaller and smaller things till your on a track that you can navigate through, despite disorientation.”

“So exactly what we need right now? A school wide narration field?” 

Doctor Time stood up, then sat down again.  “It couldn’t be that simple?  Could it?” he launched into a number of theoretical diagrams and cancelled out various factors as he went along.  

Jade listened carefully, but soon got lost in her own world. That was the problem, the computers and AIs could only keep track of so much, and tiny variations on what people did and how they interacted made their current location more of a probability cloud than a fixed location.  That was what the AI was hinting at as far as the idea of magnetism and gravity.  Organizing the rooms wasn’t as critical as organizing the situation.   Making sure that circumstances didn’t repel the craft by reason of it disrupting things so much that the safeguards kicked in. 

She snapped a picture of the finished board to show her older self.

---

Jade arrived in the Dean’s office again, her older self still working at getting something beyond a time window to the University working.  It was as if no time had passed at all.  

The chronometer sounded a small chirp that indicated to the Dean that events had transpired for one of them, even if it looked like a bounce back. 

“What did you learn?” asked the Dean, putting aside her work.  

 


