Jake’s head was swimming. 10, 11, 5, those were the first numbers he could focus on. Slowly the mess in his mind resolved into numbers on a trio of jerseys. They weren't important, but it was vital to anchor yourself somehow. Something semi-random so you could tell if you were really off. The men wearing them started walking away. Good. That was still the same.

Time travel was always disorienting, and jumping into a pile of people wasn’t the best start. The window for a non-linear incursion, as the tech boffins called it, was small. In terms of missions, it almost always meant arriving with barely enough time to do the job, and starting in the thick of it.

There were always so many variables to take into consideration. So many fluctuations in the background. So much that was barely understood theoretically, but dealt with in practical reality anyway. That was the problem when things at the bleeding edge were used.

Being the fourth attempt he could run into his past self from the other three runs, or maybe not. They were in the middle of testing a new exit protocol that should make that less likely to happen. That meant high risk missions were temporarily being attempted. As always though, there were problems. There were rumours from other teams about what kind of difficulties to expect, but his superiors thought it would be distracting information.

Jake ran quickly through the mall, dodging people with a kind of practised elegance that resulted from a lot of timed missions and a sixth sense about which way most people would try to move.

That was the point of the first three runs. Getting through your assigned area as quickly as possible, and causing the least fuss.

This time though, he had the added objective of actually finding the bomb.

The problem was that once you made a “non linear incursion” the paper records of the event became like a fun-house kaleidoscope. For the duration of the experiment, any related story would shimmer through different outcomes and variations as the time waves balanced out to a new resolution.

For most bomb related missions, the location of the blast seemed to be centred on the last known coordinates of the time traveller. It seemed that events flipped on possibilities. Would the time traveller find the bomb? Likely. Was it currently going to be disabled? Not so far. Did that make a mess of results? Definitely. Effectively that meant any new intel was useless, except as a pass/fail indicator.

The papers before the experiment started suggested the bomb was in the food court and Jake was just about there. Some aberrant temporal activity had prevented him from starting closer to it. He had searched about half the area before his wrist mounted time extractor buzzed and brought him back to the lab.

“I couldn’t find it, but I should be able to make it on run five.” The scientists nodded and asked if he needed a quick break. Time was a luxury, ironically enough. “I’d rather go back sooner, while I still have a fresh image of the place” said Jake.

10, 11, 5. Jerseys. He didn’t wait for his head to clear, but bought himself a few extra seconds by starting the run to the food court right away. He quickly slipped into the routine, the out of sync memory feeling like a comfortable shoe. Dodge left. Jump over the kid. Duck when the lady gestures. If it wasn’t so serious it might feel like a game.

He made it to the eating area again and started with the far garbage cans. He found a suspicious looking package in the third container. Usually explosives are detonated with another smaller charge, but mixing that with time travel was a very bad idea. That meant disarming the bomb.

Normally someone would panic under the circumstances, but Jake methodically took as many reference pictures of the device he could. Either his timer would run out, or the fatal exception would be triggered if he set off the device. His arm buzzed. Extraction

As he arrived back in the lab he got the report on the explosive. It was fairly stable and it seemed likely that it was a mission timeout rather than the ‘looming death’ preview that brought him back. The pictures were taken to the bomb techs to decode and generate a solution. Jake busied himself by sketching the device mostly from memory so his reactions could be quicker.

In ten minutes they had found the details of the device and who the likely bomber was. As tempting as it would be to snatch them out of the timeline and prevent the situation before it happened, it would cause a paradox. That would be worse for the timeline than any bomb.

Jake went through the motions of defusing a few times on a hastily assembled 3d model but had to balance that against a fresh memory of running through the crowds. It would be a waste to learn the end goal of the mission but lose focus on getting to it in time. The timeline could only stand a few more incursions, and learning the crowd patterns again would take too many of them.

10, 11, 5. Yup. Jake lost a few seconds crashing roughly into a handful of people, but he knew where to go and what to do when he got there. Between the two extremes it balanced out that he had more time than he really needed. After defusing the device he triggered the exit jump himself rather than waiting for the time to run out.

He then watched helplessly as the process of jumping left him frozen for a few seconds and then sent a copy of him going backwards in time, toward the bomb. Frustration and horror as the cut wire arced with negative time and rejoined - arming the explosive again.

As the lab materialized around him he gave a report of what happened to the nearest scientists. They theorized that the new exit protocol was to blame. It had removed the extra copies of him in the timeline by sending back a reverse pulse. That pulse effectively undid the last few seconds of whatever he did before wiping out the incursion more roughly. Triggering the jump early meant he actually got to watch the undo happening.

That seemed to concur with what the other teams had been finding. Their solution was to get the process down as well as possible and get fast enough to leave a time buffer. That way the reverse pulse would dissipate enough that it would only undo some waiting rather than mission objectives.

Unfortunately there wasn’t time to do that, or enough runs to get better at the crowd dodging. The only solution was to turn off the anti-copy protocol on the final run.

10, 11, 5. He started running. He knew he would crash into someone, his head was a bit worse now, doing another run again so close and having the pressure of time limits and the removal of the anti-copy protocol. He wondered what would happen if he met himself in this high pressure situation. He tripped trying to dodge out of the way of someone and saw himself leap over himself when he went down. He staggered up and began running after his copy who was doing his best to clear a path.

The copy got stopped in a minor altercation and he ran past him, which startled the person who was about to strike his double. The double smiled and got back to heading for the food court as well.

They both headed toward the garbage with the bomb. There was a quick decision on which one of them would work on the device. The bomb was defused and there was a few precious moments to decide what would happen next.

It seemed paradoxical that neither of them would have made it to the bomb on time if not for the other, but neither could remember the other one’s run.

The safest choice seemed to be -- the one that didn’t disarm the explosive - run the anti-copy protocol. The mission critical version - jump back with it still off.

In the swirling miasma of time travel, that ended up being the correct solution.

Jake woke up in the lab, more disoriented than usual. He simultaneously remembered both versions of the final disarming run. After a few weeks of paradox induced headaches he finally made peace with it.

The resolved report about the bomb settled out into the news stories from the time. On it were the pictures of three men in the jerseys he had seen. They seemed to have found the disarmed explosive.

Jake tried to make sense of it all as he did his, now very late, after mission report. Starting near the men with the jerseys bugged him. He didn't know what the computer could see. Maybe it had a glimpse into the successful timeline. Could it have been trying to work backwards from that?

'Bleeding edge nonsense' he sighed.


